so we had a really cool post the other
day that i thought was super interesting
and so we actually
invited the person who posted to come on
stream and talk about it because i think
it is something that
isn't talked about very much and
specifically
the poster made a post about um only
fans
and uh the dude actually like has a
girlfriend now but like
he finds that only fans sort of
is more appealing in some ways than a
real life relationship
and so i think we haven't really had a
chance to really talk to people about
some of these
uh you know generally speaking
non-talked about
things right so usually when people talk
about only fans
it's just memes and judgment so here at
healthy game where we like to understand
like where people are coming from and
why they do what they do
and only fans is is you know just wildly
successful so i think that they're
tapping into something
that is like a need that really hasn't
been explored
um tends to get judged a lot right so
like people will say oh it's like toxic
and stuff and it very well maybe i
really don't know but um here what we do
at healthy gamer is we really try to
understand things in a non-judgmental
way and try to like learn a little bit
about ourselves
hey man
um so thank you so much for coming on by
the way you're the you're the dude who
posted on reddit
yeah okay cool so can you um what do you
go by friend
spencer okay spencer so spencer um
thanks
uh first of all a lot for posting on
reddit i think it's a really
um important topic that you mentioned
and thank you very much for coming
on stream because i think um you know
parasocial relationships and only fans
is
something that we don't really talk
about um
and so i i i commend you for you know
having the balls to
talk about it man yeah so
first of all i have to say that the post
was a debate it's a lie i'm sorry
oh really
yeah okay
i've never been on only fence so yeah
okay um
let me think about that for a second
okay so then can you help us
understand uh why you posted that
yeah um i'm sort of confused too
i i kind of wanted to come on stream
so that was basically sort of the point
i made a post or
i i applied to it earlier and then i
figured like so i sometimes i do
stuff that there are sort of conflicting
desires or something and then i pick the
thing that
my intuition tells me not to because i
tend to sort of
learn the most by following the opposite
that my
intention in my um
yeah that my sort of heart is telling me
okay um can can you help me understand
that a little bit
like what do you mean about your
intuition yeah sure so
basically i tend to sometimes not be
able to trust my own
emotions and
by doing the opposite it sort of makes
me learn a lot more
it's it's kind of strange like it's
ugh so for example like telling someone
how i feel
used to be something that's that's real
it's really something that
that doesn't fit with me or that that
doesn't fit with my intuition and as
soon as
sometimes i've been i've done sort of
inappropriate things
just because like
when you feel like for example okay this
is not an example that i
that i have but for example if you have
to choose between
love and money and you go for money
because
you know that okay i picked the wrong
side now my heart tells me i'm going for
love
but if i go for money now then the next
time it's easier not to
have more uh desires and to just
to just just go for love
okay can i just think for a second i'm
just still catching i'm trying to
process the debate
and try to think about you know what to
do
so i can talk a bit more if you want uh
sure go ahead
so basically i've watched mostly most
of all streams and i relate to a lot of
them but one point
that's really big in my life is a
subject that you haven't talked about
unfortunately not only fans but
something else and i was wondering like
could i just sort of like tell my story
and sort of
try to understand myself a little bit
um can you just tell me what the general
topic is
uh psycho-immunology you've sort of
touched on it before but i'm just
curious what you
have to say about it more um sure we can
talk about psycho
immunology i'm a little bit curious
about
um you know the
what went through your head in terms of
making that reddit post
and and what kind of motivated you to so
it sounds like you
basically lied yeah
and so i'm i'd like to try to understand
that
um do you feel comfortable talking about
that or
no yeah but at the same time i feel like
i'm it's kind of sort of complex and i
feel like i
i would feel a lot more comfortable if
you understood me a little bit
as if yeah if i get the chance to
like explain myself a little bit or
where i come from
sure for we but before i give you the
steering wheel to talk about what i
think
okay sure can i share one feeling with
you spencer
and then you can drive so i feel
somewhat taken advantage of
that's fair um i feel like
you know there's you you made a post on
on reddit
and um i i i i do want to give you a
chance to kind of explain your side and
and i'm i'm happy to hear um you know
what you have to say but i think in
order for me to really listen to you
with an open mind
i have to get some stuff off of my chest
does that make sense
yeah so i feel like we have a process
and really what we're here to do is to
try to help the most
people possible and
that's really the compass that we use is
to try to help
you know the most people possible and i
understand that you know it sounds like
you
sound like you need help and stuff and
i'm sure that we can make this
productive for other people
but at the same time i feel like we're
starting off this discussion
based on essentially a lie um
and so i sort of feel taken advantage of
and i just feel like i need to get that
off my chest
yeah that's fair so i didn't expect
anything other than that and i
at the same time i feel a lot of
like i feel that i lied and i feel bad
about it
but at the same time i felt like i had
to do this okay
i i think that that so that makes sense
to me
um so in my experience spencer a lot of
people
who do things like lie or do things that
we would generally think of
as bad are pushed by extreme
measures or circumstances and i
oftentimes find that
you know people will sometimes have to
do whatever they have to do
to get their needs met
and so i'm doing my best not to try to
judge you and i hope that you can
does that make do you feel judged
yeah sure but that's from a fair point
right yeah
so i am judging you i'm doing my best
not to but
i absolutely am judging you and i'm
trying to be understanding and
compassionate
about what would motivate you to do
to go so far is to like take advantage
of me
um and at the same time i do feel taken
advantage of and i think like
i just needed to kind of get that off my
chest and maybe we can circle back and
talk a little bit more about
why you felt like you had to do it down
the road
and we can go to you know you can tell
me a little bit about yourself how does
that sound
yeah sure okay cool go for it bro
so basically
so i'm 26 years old i'm from the
netherlands
i've got an older brother and older
sister and i've got a lot of older
cousins and nephews
and basically ever since i was born i
was taught to
[Music]
not feel sadness or anger and
to never express that so that was a big
part of me
um and it was also how so
i i always had to it was just yeah
it was just strict it was i can't
like there was nothing that was
so true for me except that and and it
was like sometimes i was
having sort of needs where i was being
sad and i was sort of
struck by my dad i don't know if that's
the right word i wasn't sort of it
wasn't
that abusive but it like it wasn't i
wasn't allowed to be sad or angry like
what what what can you give me an
example of like what that would actually
like what happened
yeah so just like
i felt like
i wanted something and i felt sad about
that and he sort of struck me on the
head like with
with his hand it wasn't hard or
something it wasn't abusive but
like sort of like this isn't something
you should
do or something and when you said you
would
feel sad how would your dad know that
you're feeling sad
uh because i cried so you would be
crying
and then he would kind of okay so
is it okay if i sort of so basically
within my story it will sort of
sound like as if there are a thousand
problems and at the same time sort of
there are no problems but
it's sort of weird it's sort of subtle
and
complex in a way like can i just talk
for a while without questions i mean
there will be so many questions that you
will want to ask but
i feel like
sure go ahead okay so basically
i was told to not feel sad or not
express sadness or anger
and i was taught to always be nice to
watch others
and so from a young age like six or
seven years old i was
bullied quite a lot or at least not like
viciously bullied but
i felt always felt left out and i was
always sort of
i wasn't very social and i was always
sort of
outsider and i was i wasn't very
approachable
and i felt like a lot of other kids were
like pretty nice or pretty cool they
weren't nice again
nice towards me but i felt like um those
are great people
and if they bully me or they are harsh
again
against me then it's my fault or that
then it's sort of because of me
um and that sort of struck and
i sort of never like i was never allowed
to
feel those feelings and at home it was
it felt like um whenever i will talk
about something then they would say like
well is it your fault like what what did
you do isn't it your fault so it never
sort of took my side and felt judge at
home
so that stayed for a while and i think
after
like when i was 13 or 14 and started
having more
like sort of friends i've i never felt
like i had an identity
but who does at that age but either way
um
so i was sort of starting to learn to
get out of my comfort zone
while at the same time sort of
not following my own feelings and when i
was
like yeah when i was 15 or so i was i
was starting to get a lot of
injuries like i sported a lot but from
15 years old i started getting injures
injuries and at 17 or 18 years old i
went to college
and i chose a degree or i
chose psychology actually um for the
reason that
not that i wanted to help people i yeah
i wanted to help people but mostly i
just
i felt like if i knew
what people were feeling and if people
told me what they were feeling then i
would be loved or i would be
liked by them so it was kind of the
weird the
the bad way of choosing psychology
because that was sort of
selfish in a weird way because i was
sort of
i thought like if if people told me what
was
on their heart then they would like me
and that became like i got a few toxic
relation or toxic friendships out of
that
and basically so i i still continue to
be
on that um like to be
out of my comfort zone so when i was 18
i went to
a i went to become a entertainer on the
camping
like an entertainer entertains kids well
i don't really like it
but it was like i'm gonna do stuff that
i don't like
and i went to germany but i don't speak
german they asked me like can you speak
german and i said
yeah sure so that was basically like
i'm just gonna do this because it i
can't do this and that's why i have to
do this
so i just sure did the opposite of what
i
felt or what i wanted
so this is a bit where the mess sort of
starts
so like two days later i um
i got a lump in my throat or at least it
felt like i got pain in my throat
and so i after two days it felt like
yeah a
big orange in my my throat and from that
moment on i was
mute for a year or so like i couldn't
talk for a year
and that was kind of strange so i
dropped out from college
and the two years after that it
was um
i kind of did nothing like i there was
a lot of fear within like okay how i
will
how will i be able to like how will my
future look like and then i felt like
okay
i have to the only way to make money now
is to gamble
so i kind of gambled gambled a lot
um not anymore by the way but
it and went up to thousands or tens of
thousands
um but yeah it was that was sort of
strange and
after like two years it went a little
bit better but after one year i got
also got like i got increasing
amounts of pain within my stomach and
after a year was
diagnosed like one night
i woke up with pain in my stomach and i
got
diagnosed with crohn's disease which is
a
chronic inflammatory disease within your
digestive system and
i felt like
it's weird so you've talked about the
the rapid
experiment with where they take like
the feces from a depressed red
and place it in a healthy red and the
the healthy red
feels more depressed and so it's it's
weird to see like when i
when i feel ill i also feel way more
down
and sure so
that went on for a while and that sort
of that went that
went way worse and way worse and i also
got like
other um my injuries with that like for
like eight years ago or so i
fell on my um what's the word
like the the last bone of your um
of your back like the the tailbone i
fell on my tailbone
okay i thought it was still bone but
that's okay
um but i fell on myself same thing okay
i fell on my tailbone bone and
throughout the years it became worse and
worse and now it sort of
is it feels like it's sort of twisted in
a way it is sort of twisted in a way
like they made scans and stuff
and i went to the best like a physical
therapist
to sort of change that or something but
it feels like
every moment it feels like uncomfortable
in the way that
it feels like i want to stretch and it
sort of pops but it never pops
so it's like it's a weird
feeling it's like always uncomfortable
and i feel like you had wanted me to
listen and not ask questions i was just
curious do you know how
far along we are and what you wanted to
share
yeah so basically what i feel like is
with
immuno with psycho immunology
that with autoimmune diseases i
i've like i've talked to a lot of
people who also have immune diseases and
i felt like
it would be um
wants to learn more about it or wanted
to talk about it
okay yeah so a couple of things let's
just kind of
lay some ground rules so one thing is i
i i can't dispense medical advice over
the internet
right so that i understand um and and so
we can talk a little bit about
psychoimmunology
but my sense is that the money is not
going to be an
intellectual discussion about
psychoimmunology
so let me explain is there anything else
you wanted to share by the way i was
just trying to get a sense of
how far along in your narrative you were
[Music]
yeah um a bit of stuff but that's okay
okay so so if we let's just talk about
psychoimmunology for a second
okay so the if we understand so it's
really psychoneuroimmunology
is is really the field that i think is a
little bit better to understand so what
this means is that
we have a mind so our mind is not a
physical thing
our mind is like a representation of
like thoughts like conscious and
unconscious and whatnot
and depending on the kinds of thoughts
we have
it changes the way that our brain
functions or
there's a correlation between our brain
and our thoughts
and then furthermore our brain secretes
chemicals that affects our immune system
and physical body okay so for example
if i have anxious thinking
um you know that'll cause
the secretion of potentially adrenaline
and cortisol
and then cortisol will hyper activate my
immune system
and if there's nothing for my immune
system to fight against
that cortisol can result in like
autoimmune kind of phenomenon or a
dysregulated immune system
and by dysregulated immune system it's
like it's like you're turning your
immune system on high alert and there's
nothing to attack
and if there's nothing to attack your
immune system sort of gets jittery and
starts like
attacking healthy parts of you because
it doesn't
know what else to do and so that's sort
of where psychoneuroimmunology is
um you know there are a lot of
interventions which you can do for
psycho
neuroimmunology but my sense is that you
know what we tend to talk about here
is to try to help people understand
themselves
and i think in your case there are
certainly things that we can talk about
i don't know if it's what you want to
talk about
in fact i'm getting the sense that it's
not what you want to talk about
but if you ask me what is the most
helpful towards you
i would say that it's more on the psycho
part as opposed to the neuro part or
immunology part
how do you feel about that
yeah that makes sense okay um
so the next thing is if you have
specific questions i mean you've gone to
all of this trouble
and we're here now do you have any
specific questions for me that you'd
like me to answer
no not really i have to say that i sort
of
this is sort of like sometimes i did
things
where my intuition told me to not to do
stuff and sometimes i learned a lot
about it and sometimes i figured out
that my intuition has sort of lied to me
or that some feels a big part of my
feelings lie to me and in this
case i feel like i should have listened
to my intuition because this feels
quite uncomfortable and i shouldn't have
done this
yep so we'll talk about that so what
what was your intuition telling you to
do
it's okay spencer we're here now so
we're gonna make the most of it
i won't say that i'm glad that you did
what you did but i think that we're here
now
and so let's try to understand and try
to help you as much as we can
yeah so
what did my intuition tell me not to do
now it was like
um okay how do i say this
so some ah okay so there's this
interview with
an actor uh matt damon who got
on his 25th uh
like when he was 25 he got an egg and he
got an oscar
and in the interview like years later he
told me or
he told an interview like um
i'm so happy to have had that interview
or to have to add that
oscar on a young age because imagine
becoming 80 and then figuring out like
uh
i fought all that time for an oscar and
it doesn't feel that hole in me it
doesn't take away the pain
and so i feel like whenever there's a
part of me that
wants something and a huge part of me
that doesn't want that
then i'll just go for that small part
that does want something because
either i found find out that there's
something that takes away the
pain or i find out that i
never wanted part again because i found
out the hard way
sort of okay i sort of lost you there
but let me
respond so the first thing is that i'm
going to replace the word intuition with
need
okay okay that's what it feels like to
me so i think that like
what i'm hearing is that you have some
kind of like need or hunger
and then there's a large part of you
that sort of doesn't want
that need or hunger to control your
actions
you want to act in a different way and
then what ends up happening
and this is where i sort of lose you and
i think it's i don't really know that we
need to explore this right now but
but that you end up sort of giving in to
the need or hunger
and then this is where i sort of lose
you you say that you end up learning
more that way
what does that mean
yeah so sometimes like
the first time i told someone like
okay i feel sad was really
i've done a lot of things that were
really really inappropriate
and bad or self-destructive before i
talked to someone and told them that i
felt sad
very very good observation okay keep
going
okay now i lost my trainer for sorry so
i i think i think so let's
let's just talk so spencer i'm gonna
respond to you okay
so normally i talk to people more
before i sort of offer some thoughts
about them but i think in your case
you've actually given us a lot of
richness of information
with the way that we even started the
interview okay
so let's just let me kind of run you
through what what
i heard so you kind of said you're not
allowed to be sad
right like that's a big problem and so
what i'm hearing is that people haven't
allowed you to be sad
and that maybe what that's doing is like
some kind of suppressed
emotion is affecting your immune system
and physical health
how does that sound to you okay can i
keep going yeah at
like up to a year or so like until a
year or so i started
learning that i started learning that it
was okay to be sad and i started
learning that
stuff weren't like not everything is my
fault and that
that i feel like really deep in my heart
good i don't think
yeah go ahead sorry but at the same time
i feel like
there's still so much down there
from the first 25 years of my life
and i don't know how to not feel that i
don't know how to
process that i'm with you bro okay so
let's talk about this
so you said that the basic issue growing
up is that you weren't allowed to feel
sad correct
yeah when we started this interview did
i let you feel sad
did you let me see you said i mean yeah
sure
i disagree why not right so so this is
like so let's think about what happened
so usually
people don't have to fight me to tell
their story
you came on here and you wanted me to
listen right you're like the one person
that i pushed back
you're like hey i can i just tell you
about myself like i want you to listen i
want you to tell me
i i want you to listen to like the
difficulties that i've had
you're the one [ __ ] person that i
didn't want to listen to
how do you understand that
how do i not understand that like i
completely understand your situation
like in my head
it didn't go this way but i felt like
okay i just have to do this
but why is it that you're the one person
so your problem is that people don't
listen to you right like your dad when
you're feeling sad and you're crying
he kind of hits you upside the head like
this whole muteness right so this like
psychological mutinous is what it sounds
like it doesn't sound like it was
medical but we'll get to that in a
second
but like the whole point is that people
don't care about you
right spencer
like they don't listen to you that's it
that's a big conclusion based on that
but
yeah i mean is that how you feel
i've absolutely felt that but
i feel last year i feel like
people do care in a bit but yep
it's just so much
yeah let me jump in okay so let me put
it this way why does someone
have to lie to get their needs met
it's because they're afraid or their
experience is that if they don't lie
they don't get their needs met
does that make sense
yeah right so like why did you lie
to come on stream
to get my knees wet absolutely right is
that a hard feel
yeah i mean because you were like i i
needed to do this
that's what you tell us right
yeah okay so i think this is the this is
the challenge because when you do that
like you're kinda it's interesting
because you kind of pull me into this
dynamic which i i think could be present
in a lot of parts of your life
i don't blame you for like the stuff
with your dad or whatever but it's kind
of interesting because you're like the
one person that i don't want to listen
to
and i want to listen to everyone and so
how the [ __ ] does that happen and it's
because of the way
like you create a self-fulfilling
prophecy and when you kind of say you
have self-destructive behavior i see it
absolutely
because that's what you did to me right
like you created a conversation under
false pretenses
and then like dr k doesn't want to
listen to what you have to say
and that's gotta hurt right
and then what happens like you have to
you literally said can i just talk
and i was like whoa what the [ __ ] is
happening like no one has ever said that
to me on stream
no one has ever had to fight for the
ability to speak
and then i paused and i was thinking
like what just happened here
and then i realized like we're we're
playing out this drama
where like you're creating a situation
where
i don't feel like listening to you
i don't want to listen to you because i
feel taken advantage of
and then that in turn makes you
feel like you're not allowed to be sad
because you're talking to someone
who doesn't want to listen to you and so
then of course you're going to feel like
oh [ __ ] people don't want to listen to
me
and then what that does is reinforces
the need for you to lie to get your
needs met
does that make sense yeah absolutely
i don't think it applies to all my life
though
i doubt it applies okay go ahead
i sorry yeah so
a lot of like a big part of my life i
felt like
i lied about me like i
i told people like okay i don't feel sad
and i still sort of
sometimes struggle with it and i had a
lot of
i had some friendships where people like
only came to me and sort of
that i was sort of crying the shoulder
to cry on in the way
sure and now i feel like i'm so
overwhelmed and i'm so
i can't take much more
no stuff from others that i feel like
it's i can't sort of have a two-way
street anymore
absolutely first i was first it was such
a big one-way street
where people wanted me and now i sort of
am overwhelmed and now sort of i want
someone else and
in some ways i can sort of get it but
there's just
it's it's like an unlimited need for
support or for someone to listen
yeah so i i think that that's sort of
tangential because like so i
totally get so first of all i don't
think you're a bad person okay let me
just
say that i don't think twitch should
think you're a bad person either
i think you're someone who has some
psychological levers
that are being pulled in you and we kind
of call it a need or a hunger
and your road forward is going to be the
same as every single person's road
forward whoever comes on stream which is
to understand this dynamic within
yourself
i do think you're self-destructive i do
think that some of the stuff that you're
doing
is sort of created by you you don't
realize you're doing it i sort of don't
blame you for it but it's like
it's weird that like you came on stream
and like i didn't want to talk to you
right and so i think that what you're
saying is that i'm a good emotional
support for a lot of people which i
completely believe and completely agree
with i think you're a good person i
think people value having you in their
life
what you're missing is not that you're
not a good person
or that other people don't benefit from
having you around it's that you don't
know how to get
your emotional needs met right hence the
psychoneuroimmunology
i'm you're not allowed to be sad
like people don't listen to you people
it's not a two-way street and you want a
two-way street
and then what i think you end up doing
is that that need or hunger is so
powerful
that it pushes you to do things that
then make it
harder for your needs to be met by the
other person
which in turn makes you feel even
hungrier and hungrier
enhances the need and then causes you to
do more desperate
things i don't know
like i completely follow what you're
saying but
at the same time there are friends who
listen to me and at the same time
it's it's like i'm trying to
i don't know where and i'm just thinking
out loud it feels like i
need someone to listen to in order to
get rid of the stuff that's on my heart
yeah
i'm getting rid of the stuff that's on
my heart get better like
uh physically but at the same time they
have
like some some instances i know that
people have listened to me
and my physical stuff has been improving
a lot but other interesting instances it
feels like i'm
trying to fix um
things within myself by things from
the outside world okay spencer let me
let me so i
i don't i'm not disagreeing with you
what you're saying but i think it's
i still think you have emotional so let
me just put it this way you say you have
you have friends that do listen to you
sometimes i completely agree
great and at the end of the day you
still have that need or hunger that push
you to lie
about something on reddit and come on
stream and if your friends were
listening to you sufficiently
that hunger would be satisfied the fact
that you did what you did
pushes me to conclude that your needs
are not being
sufficiently met
it doesn't mean that they're not being
met at all it's just the [ __ ]
hunger's still there
yeah but maybe the hunger is in a
different way like maybe
like for example if i think like okay uh
money can solve my issue
and i got hundred dollars and it doesn't
didn't fix now maybe
when i get a thousand dollars it will
fix and it's like
no money doesn't fix it and in the same
way attention or
someone to listen won't fix it but i'm
just the reason i came here
is partly like i don't know if
the listening ear will fix this so i
will give get to the sort of
this will sound weird highest source of
of listening ears
or sort of like a lot of people watching
or listening
just to see if like
the listening will help and sure
maybe like maybe it doesn't though maybe
it's in a different
like maybe i have to find the answer in
a different spot and then i know this
like
there's there's a part of me that knows
this but there was a also a part of me
like well maybe it does help and that's
why i have to come on
that's why sure so so once again i think
you're trying to
just you're trying to get that need met
right you're trying to figure out is
listening
enough totally fine so let me ask you
this spencer
when you applied to come on stream and
you
didn't and we didn't say yes how did you
feel
uh frustrated
and angry
okay part of it like
what were you mad at
uh i felt like
so this conversation is going different
than i sort of
wanted it to be like i know that i've
worked with a lot of people also have
crohn's disease or collided or
autoimmune diseases
and i felt like this is really
like egocentrical to to say this but
i felt like it would be sort of
good to talk about not only for me but
for
viewers or for i don't know i think this
is there are so many
things that were yeah but there was so
many things that are sort of
contradicting each other and that that's
like
it happens it happens often within me
that are contradicting
stuff yep and that's why
it it works for me to follow the stuff
that is
against my intuition or needs
okay so i i don't i'm not sure if you
were talking
i i'd asked you when we rejected you
from coming on stream
you said you felt frustrated and angry
yeah what was frustrating and what were
you angry at
um well it wasn't like
it was frustrating and angry or i was
frustrated and angry
but then didn't take the l i felt like
okay now i have to just
just sort of fight a different way sure
i i understand that so but what were you
angry at so
anger like usually is directed towards
something right
like so who are you mad at
i don't know i i don't think i was that
angry like
i didn't feel like i was rejected
because i
knew that i could try and try again and
that
even if i was lying that i would still
like it wouldn't matter to get my needs
met
okay so
i knew that i didn't okay you didn't
feel frustrated and angry
part of me did but i knew that there
were still other options
okay so i understand that not taking the
l lets you put aside the frustration and
anger
right is that a good way to put it
but i'm still curious what you are angry
at
so this is yeah and it's okay to say i'm
selfish but
i wanted no yeah i don't know partly but
at the same time it feels too selfish to
say it but i felt like
i want it and then it's just like okay i
can't
get it and then it's yeah not getting
what you want
is frustrating so it isn't it isn't that
i'm
i'm angry towards you or towards myself
but it's just
just a temper transfer
okay you're not you weren't angry at me
yeah okay maybe but at the same time we
can understand so it's
i don't know so spencer this is
something you really i think this is
part of the reason you're confused
internally is because i don't think you
accept some of the things that you feel
because of your
internal judgments like if you want to
come on stream and you're really
suffering and we say no
like how on earth are you not angry at
us
because i'm at the same time sort of
angry or frustrated at myself
like okay yeah i mean at that time at
this time i'm sort of frustrated in
myself
okay what kind of what are you why are
you frustrated with yourself
because
my judgment was sort of wrong like
sometimes it works sometimes it works to
go against my own judgment
and this time it was wrong and like i
know that's
why was how do you know that your
judgment was wrong
what is the measuring stick you use how
do you rate your judgment
yeah because i know that it feels way
more uncomfortable right now
like sometimes it sometimes i do stuff
and then afterwards i feel better about
it i feel like
um like for example a while ago i stood
up for myself
and before that i felt like oh i
shouldn't do this i shouldn't do this i
shouldn't do this
and a small part of me was like i should
do this and therefore i will do this
because it's more
small part will be something that you
like follow
and it was great like afterwards it felt
great
and it felt like i grew a little bit
inside it felt like i
gained self-respect which was sort of
something i didn't feel in that way
before because i always seem to
de-escalate
and that's why
yeah like sometimes you win sometimes
you lose and in this
this case i feel like
so my judgment wasn't extremely
wrong like i knew that there was a dick
chance that
this would be wrong and therefore i kept
my mask and my head on
to be not recognized but
at the same time i felt like i have to
do this so there was a big chance that i
that it would be wrong but yeah it was
worth it
and how do you do you feel uncomfortable
right now
yeah but mostly because myself i don't
feel judgment from you or something
so i feel yeah help me understand that
what do you feel right now
i should know better there's no weight
so a part of me just like i knew that
this would be wrong i knew it and that's
why it's frustrating are you frustrated
with yourself for losing control
it wasn't losing control it wasn't like
it wasn't one minute where i saw a
cupcake and i bought it and it's like i
shouldn't have bought that cupcake
it was weeks and therefore it's like
i'm not losing control of yourself are
you frustrated with losing control of me
of what this session would become are
you frustrated because this didn't turn
out the way that you wanted it to
yeah yeah pretty much
okay so and also frustrated but i'm
i'm like it's a lesson for me as well in
a way that
in my head are like
it was difficult not to think about this
conversation
during the last couple of weeks and
this was not what i expected yes
so this is important spencer okay so i
want you to really like
so i feel pretty i still have some
negative emotions rolling around inside
me so hopefully that doesn't interfere
with things
i don't just let me think about this
i was about to say i don't dislike you
but let me just make sure that that's
true
yeah i don't think i dislike it okay um
so here's here's what i see is going on
okay so i i think
spencer you've got to be really careful
because i i think you're
it seems to me like you're quite
manipulative
and i know that that has a negative
connotation to it so i'm going to
explain what i mean by that
so if i understood you correctly you
signed up for something in germany
telling people that you spoke german and
you didn't speak german
is that correct and what's your
understanding can you tell me like why
you did that like what's your
understanding of what was going on
inside you
i felt like i in that position i really
didn't like myself and i felt like
i should get as far away as possible
from myself
in order to find out
how to grow sort of sure why did you
need to lie about speaking german
to be fair i could speak a few words
but nice dodge like
yeah um
i don't know yeah because lying gets you
somewhere sometimes
even though like it doesn't get you the
big things like you can't lie yourself
into
people liking or loving you try
but
yeah all right let's be honest
so spencer let me say this so i i think
i think it's
fine you came on today um because i i
think that a lot of people can relate to
this and i think this can help a lot of
people so
at the end of the day i still am
grateful for you
for coming on today i still think it
takes a different kind of balls
to come on and say in the first you know
second first 10 seconds on stream by the
way i lied and it was sort of a debate
and none of that [ __ ] was
true so i i still appreciate that you
kind of came on and stuff like that and
you know i think that you're struggling
with things that a lot of people
struggle with and i want to kind of
point some of those out to you okay
um sure so i think a lot of this is
about
control okay so like i think what you're
frustrated with yourself
for is that you had this vision of what
you wanted from me
right and then you like applied the
stream and it didn't work so you're like
i'm gonna get what i [ __ ] want from
you
and so then you went the next level this
game isn't over yet i'm not taking the l
and then you were like okay so i'm going
to make this reddit post fine so then
like you did that you showed up on
stream
and then you were honest and then you
still wanted a particular thing
and then i pushed back a little bit and
then you were like no i still want this
thing from you i want to talk about
psycho immunology
can i please just talk about this can i
get what i need
from you and then i was like sort of
sure
and then what happened is like instead
of talking to you about psychoimmunology
and teaching you things and like
living up to your expectations i keep on
going in this different direction and
the more that i move away from the
vision that you had
the more you feel frustrated with
yourself for losing control of the
situation
you didn't lie about the only fans thing
just to have this conversation
you lied about the only fan's thing to
have the conversation that you wanted
right and so like what's yeah yeah
like like i should have just taken the l
if this is what i was gonna get
so like that's the frustration that i'm
getting from you and i think this is
really
your problem spencer i don't blame you
for having it i think we can explore
where this comes from but
i want you to notice this in the present
because i think you probably do a lot of
self-destructive things
to get your emotional needs met and then
you drive other people away
you put them in weird situations
right so and and what i mean by that is
like
you know so like you kind of showed up
in this conversation
to be under false pretense under false
pretenses and then you make it very
difficult
for me to give you what you wanted to
begin with
and the whole reason that you put us in
that situation in the first place
is because you wanted to control the
outcome you're not
giving me agency in this conversation
you're not giving me control to
participate in this conversation
and i think the reason that you're not
doing that is because somewhere along
the way
people didn't meet you halfway right
somewhere along the way you showed up
and you showed your feelings to other
people
and they were like [ __ ] you and so now
what you have to do
almost as a survival mechanism is
manipulate people
into being in the situation where they
won't reject you
and you keep on like maneuvering people
until like you get them into the
situation that you want to
but then that kind of shoots you in the
foot because i think the more open you
try to be with people
the more you open yourself up to like
toxic relationships
because you have these kind of patterns
like you have these hungers
and you're so hungry that it kind of
like you know you kind of talk about
trusting your intuition or not trusting
your intuition i think it's really good
that this is happening to you right now
i think this is actually going to help
you grow a lot
but if you take away the right lessons
from it which is
don't the lesson to take away from this
conversation is not to ever do this
again it's to do this way more
because if you genuinely want people to
connect with you
and respect you and love you you have to
give them a [ __ ] choice
you can't manipulate them into a corner
and then expect them to love you
that's how you end up in toxic
relationships and once again i don't
blame you for doing this i'm not mad at
you or anything like that i care about
you as a person i think you're a good
person i think it's actually a very
helpful stream
because i don't think a lot of people
realize that a lot of their manipulative
behavior
comes from a source of protection it
comes from hurt
it comes from like having this
fundamental need that like needed to be
met
that hasn't been met and can you really
br
blame a starving kid for like stealing a
loaf of bread
so a lot of the the things that we do
that are self-destructive
are like to meet fundamental needs that
we have
you look like you're can i say something
about it yeah yeah
so i have to say that the
like the decisions where i do stuff
that is not the thing that
i should or that not the thing that my
body tells me that
i should do are
oftentimes i do that in a in a sort of
mode in which i'm not
in which i'm not myself sounds sort of
weird but i see it as even a sort of
experimental sort of mode
yep and i keep limits to where
it's okay when i feel shame and it's
okay when
i am like when people see me sort of
weirdly
i never do it when i hurt other people
like there's there's a very
yeah it's i don't
i'm okay with with sounding or seeming
weird or manipulative at this point
but i don't want to be seen evil because
that's not who i am
yeah i i don't so that's why i've been
trying to be very careful about saying i
don't think you're a bad person spencer
i think what
what's happened with you is that you've
had a long-term emotional need that has
been relatively unmet
and your brain has learned
a particular tactic that sort of gets it
met
so it's just it's just like it's kind of
like saying like you know if i'm a kid
and i grew up starving and i stole
loaves of bread
to like feed myself when i'm a young
adult i'm gonna be a thief
and like that's just what i had to learn
to survive right it doesn't make me a
bad person it just like
it still means that i'm sort of
manipulative and not doing the right
thing but like there's a damn good
reason for it
and i'm not here to judge you i i think
i did at the beginning but i really
don't anymore because like what i'd
what i'd say is that like i think all
this [ __ ] is like just the way that you
learned how to survive
right because as you said i think you're
a pretty insightful dude and like you
weren't allowed to be sad and you had
emotional needs
and somewhere along the way you realize
that if you like kind of manipulate
people or if you
manipulating is such a negative
connotation i'm going to try to stop
using that word so let me
let me rephrase so i think you figured
out that there were certain
circumstances that you could create
that made it easier for your emotional
needs to be met
i think the challenge is that those
circumstances tend to
take free will away from other people
you kind of force them into a scenario
and i think the reason you end up in
toxic relation
we haven't even talked about any of this
[ __ ] but if i had to hypothesize
i'd say that you kind of probably like
pushed people into situations or they
pushed you into situations
there's something going on about like
you guys aren't too free
human beings with free will making
unencumbered choices
things are kind of tangled up and
confusing and you're kind of like
you're playing a game of chess with
another human being instead of like
having a conversation with them
because what you do is maneuver right
okay i applied to be on stream that
didn't work
let me move my queen over here let me
make a fake post on reddit and maybe
that'll work
and boy are you good at it my dude
you're very good at it
right you are the first person who has
made a reddit post that we've invited to
come on stream
and so you're very good at it
and we're not improving i'm not
impervious to manipulation in fact i'm
very easy to manipulate
i tend to let myself be manipulated
because i think it's okay
right so i i tend to recognize that
oftentimes people are manipulative not
because they're bad but because they've
like
they've learned some weird like you know
algorithm to get some need met
and in your case i think you've got to
be really careful spencer because i
think you're going to continue being
self-destructive in relationships
until you let people start rejecting you
but then good
so i feel like sure so i feel like i
hope that after this stream like i
feel like i can sort of close
this stuff off in my head that this
won't
fix me you know like that that
i can't manipulate or i can't sort of
force
something in order to not feel the pain
that i feel
absolutely but at the same time like
i think that's it yeah
so that's something i i i i very much
agree with that right like so i i think
that there's like weird stuff going on
like the
you know being mute for a year and stuff
like that like i'd love to ask you more
questions about that kind of stuff but i
just want to kind of lay out this
framework first that
i mean you've got to let people reject
you
right you've got to let people have
their agency
because as long as you maneuver people
to get
your needs met it's going to feel really
bad on the other side
because what are you doing to me spencer
you're not giving me a choice in this
matter
right you're getting your needs met but
what about my needs what about what i
wanted
right like what do you think about that
yeah so
part of me thinks that so i'm struggling
between
thinking that either way it would be
sort of helpful
and at the other end that i
sort of felt like being selfish would be
i don't know like
part of me is like okay i was being
selfish and this was sort of my
my way to try out if
this helps me and at the same time
i'm struggling with words i think
okay take your time
can you repeat the question yeah so so i
i'm actually okay with you being selfish
right so like
if you want to be selfish what i have a
problem with is you not being
transparent
because people come on here and are
[ __ ] selfish all the time like that's
what we're here for like i'm here for
you
every person who comes on stream i'm
here for them it's not about my needs
it's about their
needs and at the same time i think
you've got to be careful because like
i'm not hearing any consideration
from in your mind about what we're here
for
doesn't mean it isn't there it's just
i'm not hearing it so by all means if
it's there
let us know but i think like this is a
child
yeah go ahead i wanted to say it's
absolutely there
okay how so
i mean
so i generally genuinely appreciate
what you're doing and what's what's
healthy
gamer um
did you still hear me sorry the screen
went out yeah it lagged for a second but
i think we're back
okay
but i felt like whatever we would talk
about that would
be sort of for the greater good
anyway so it wasn't like i did this
purely for my own
reasons and i wouldn't like
in my head it felt like this wouldn't be
harmful for you so it wasn't
it's it still feels like it still still
sounds like this is really controlling
but
i felt like the limit within being
selfridge
was that it wasn't harmful or it wasn't
bad towards you
so i think that's a very good thing that
you're sharing spencer because i think
this is where you've got to be careful
okay so i think it's fine that you did
this
sort of i mean i don't want other people
to do it but i think it's fine that you
did it
and and but i think you've got to be
careful because i understand that you
have an
internal standard about what is harmful
to other people
and what isn't right here's the real
problem
is that like you've got to be careful
about you being
the determiner or the decider about what
is harmful for me
you can't use your standard of
harmfulness
if you're not being transparent
right the whole point of like agency in
a relationship and equality in a
relationship
is that you have to give me the option
to decide whether this is harmful for me
or not you don't get to pick
i understand where you're coming from i
don't think it's
an unreasonable way to think but i think
it's like
if you really want to have stable
healthy fulfilling relationships
i think you've really got to work on
this you've got to let
other people decide for themselves like
what's harmful or helpful
instead of figuring out what works for
you and doesn't hurt them
like all on your own like they have to
be involved in that process
does that make sense
yeah so i feel like
i do have a lot of healthy relationships
but i do have a lot of
unhealthy relationships i just want to
say that it's all
not all bad and that yep um
that it's helpful to hear this for
that unhealthy part and that i do
recognize me in it
and
yeah i don't know i have to i will have
to think about this later
i want to sort of let this sink in so i
also think spencer i'm not saying that
all of your relationships are a dumpster
fire i think if you look at your healthy
relationships
and your unhealthy relationships what i
would suspect and i encourage you to do
this
is that in some of them this whole all
this [ __ ] that we're talking about
is more active and in others
that hunger or that need that drives you
to like never take the l
you're able to control that a little bit
more or the reason that they're healthy
is because you do give those people
agency in relationships
you are transparent with them even if
you're selfish
because i i think it's fine for you to
be selfish in a relationship as long as
you're like
open with the other person you're like
hey man i've had a rough week
i actually don't give a [ __ ] about your
problems today can i just talk about
mine
and the whole reason that like this got
repaired i don't know if you recognize
this but
the whole reason that this was
salvageable is because you came out and
you were transparent in the first
sentence
and when you do that it gives us it sure
it can be hurtful
and feels like a betrayal a lot of that
good stuff but it helps
you and i move forward
can i ask you a question then yeah um
so the healthy relationships are those
where
i know that the other person will be
there either way and
that freedom gives me like sometimes i
i don't like sometimes i don't want to
talk about
stuff that i'm that's bothering me and
sometimes i do
and that freedom gives me a lot and then
it's not like it doesn't sucks energy
out of me when someone else complains or
someone else
like opens their heart to me
but whenever there's like a relationship
where our friendship where
the other person complains a lot and i
feel like
i want sort of i want to be a part of it
or i want to sort of
open my heart now and it feels like
so i know that i struggle with
the like with my own sort of
emotions over my own like whenever
there's emotions
i feel it physically because
yeah that's that's sort of what that
autoimmune stuff is and i
i like whenever someone like for example
when someone
is angry or is sort of expressing that
anger or sadness towards me
i get ill for a couple of days or weeks
and i know that the emotions of other
people can really like
really hurt me as like sticks and stones
may break my bones but words will
make my intestines bleed
and so it feels like
part of me sort of has to manipulate in
order to not get ill or if it's like
good but like some yeah relationships
the other person
[Music]
should give me the room to speak
more like should give me all the freedom
as like
i give them freedom because then i
and i heard less yeah so i i think
spencer that's once again very good
understanding on your part because i
think now we understand
how a good person can become so
manipulative
right so like like i think that's a very
good explanation of like
i can't afford to let
other people like reject me and make me
feel sad because my intestines start
bleeding when
when when that happens and so i think
this is like absolutely a learned
behavior dude
where like you learned a long time ago
that like you need to control because
you can't deal with the consequences if
they do reject you
and it makes perfect sense to me that
you feel free with some people because
if you know that they're get
if if their love for you is
unconditional you have no reason to
manipulate them
and so what i'm saying is that they're
like two like somewhere along the way
there's a fork in the road
and i think what happens is like you
sort of test them a little bit
you probably start out a little bit
manipulative and the more
that they like are unconditional towards
you the less you need to use those
things
right but like the more that they kind
of start to
push back against that kind of stuff or
if they don't give you what you need
this kind of controlling part of you
starts to rise up because
like it's very like physically painful
and like bad for your health
if they start rejecting you and make you
feel sad and stuff like that
but at the end of the day like no it's
not
it's not like rejecting me or making me
feel feel sad i think
the painful part is more when they
express their emotions and i don't get
to express mine
i don't get to express my struggle yeah
so i think that's what i mean by
rejection
so like this whole this whole thing
between me and you
is a great example of the drama that you
pull into other people
so let's think about this right like we
rejected you
and then you manipulated us
and then like i sort of rejected you at
the beginning and then you were like can
i please speak
and i think that like we were able to
move hopefully able to move past that
you voiced your discomfort i voiced my
discomfort
we shared like hey this isn't exactly
what i wanted it's not exactly what i
wanted
let's see what we can make of it and we
can kind of move forward
but like this whole thing about like i i
don't when i say rejecting i don't mean
that they call you mean or anything like
like they're mean to you i think it's
just rejection
i'm saying it goes back to the original
thing that you said about your dad
which is that you're not allowed to be
sad which is what we hear you say right
now it's like when
people in in relationships that you have
when they don't allow you to be sad
that's what hurts you
right that's what the rejection is you
can't be yourself they don't treat you
unconditionally
and the healthy relationships are the
ones where they genuinely allow you to
be sad
and so i'm not saying this is you all
the way through this
is how some scars work we have like
certain
like maladaptive programming that
activates in particular situations
and doesn't activate in other situations
and what i hate about western psychiatry
is that some people would look at you
and say like oh this person is
sociopathic
and it's binary i don't think you're
sociopathic i think that
there are times that you have emotional
needs that you
engage in manipulative behaviors to get
those needs met and i think there's a
damn good reason why you've learned how
to do it that way
i think it's very forgivable right
because that's what you like like
literally like you said sticks and
stones may break my bones but if
if you reject me my intestines are going
to bleed
it's like holy [ __ ] what would you
expect that person to do
just sit around get rejected and like be
[ __ ] blood for like
15 years of their life people are going
to do what they need to to survive
and in your case like i think you've
just got to be really careful because i
think the more that
these dynamics take control of your life
the more problems you're going to run
into
if you really want to get healed i think
it's about sort of removing
this part from acting
in your relationships
and recognize that someone in chat said
like you got to take a leap of faith
right which you sort of did by coming
here and i think this is actually really
good like i would be
i'm glad that this is not turning out
how you need it to
because the real lesson that i'd like
you to learn is that it's okay if things
don't turn out
the way that i need them to i can
survive that
because if you can learn that then you
don't need to manipulate people anymore
and if you don't manipulate people you
can form an authentic
open relationship with someone where
they can listen to your problems and you
can listen to theirs and then
over time you have all this pent up
sadness
that your dad stopped listening to when
you were like six
that you've gotta get out with a lot of
people
or a therapist which i don't know if
you've seen the therapist but this is
exactly what therapy is for
thoughts questions
yeah so this this is not what i
wanted i think but this is what i needed
is what you're saying i think
that's my assessment i could be wrong
yeah i'm i'm just i think i'm way too
confused about
all of this that i don't know what i
need or wants so
yeah i'll just i'll just accept your
judgment on it i think okay so let me
just say for the record
it's being too confused and not knowing
what you need and you want that makes
you perfect and appropriate to come on
stream
right that's what we look for we're here
to help people who don't know what they
need and don't know what they want
and i wouldn't accept my judgment i
wouldn't accept it as a conclusion i'd
take it as a hypothesis because i could
[ __ ] be wrong i mean what do i know i
met you like an hour ago
right so what do i know so i'd say like
this is for you to take home
and look at your own toxic relationships
maybe we can talk about it a little bit
if you want to
like if you want to i'm happy to hear a
little bit about
your period of time being mute or what
you said in terms of toxic relationships
and we can see whether some of this
pattern
applies now that we've generated a
hypothesis
we can like look at something in your
life and see if it fits or if it doesn't
and that's the way that this work gets
done yeah
is that like an invitation to talk now
about one of those things
sort of do you want to what do you think
about that
yeah so if if you are okay for it i
would like to talk about
a friend of mine um
i started dating her like a few years
ago for
a couple of times it didn't work out it
was on both sides we just went
for friendship and she like the
friendship grew really fast as in
she trusted me a lot and i trusted her
but she
talked a lot about her issues and there
was a
huge part of me that was jealous for her
issues being smaller than mine and for
her still to be sort of happy even
though she was
voicing her problems or troubles
and i felt like really angry that
sometimes she like she was really she
was a really good listener and i feel
really trust
trusted by her but she would like she
would listen
and then a part of like she would listen
and there's a part of me that
felt hurt like there's a bit of sort of
pain inside of me and there
she sort of touches it gently but it
doesn't go away and that
that made me sort of frustrated or angry
and so basically what
happened was i got sort of angrier and i
told her
um i
i told her through text like this this
might come out of nowhere but
i'm getting angrier and angrier by the
weeks to you and it's not
personal but we should break our
friendship for a while i don't know
what's going on but
i don't want to hurt you i don't want to
do anything bad towards you but i feel
this way and
this is like yeah so sort of the
friendship ended for a couple of months
and
we met up again and then it was sort of
awkward
and ever since we sort of broke up the
friendship
why were you getting angry at her what
were you getting angry at
i don't know part of it was that
i'm jealous for people voicing their
struggles
and it's not that bad
part of it was jealousy for her own life
even though
i was happy for her being like having a
sort of good life and part of it was
frustration like the biggest part was
frustration that she was
she was a good listener and
like she she touched a part in me and
every time
she touched that part she
backed away again like you're not a
therapist for friends
or you're not like people can't
fix you in that way if people can't take
that out but i felt really like
peace for the love of god sort of cut me
open and take that part of pain
out of me and sort of do that for me
like
it it felt like desperation
and i don't know
in other situations i feel like some
people
feel that desperation that you
when the other person feels when you
sent that text to her what did you want
her to do
uh
well i was mostly sort of surprised by
how
angry i got so it was really like i
don't
i hope you sort of back off it wasn't
like i wanted
like i i feel like you are you're going
to like that i want her to
take my pain away anyway or something i
don't know what you're going to
i'm just wondering so like so remember
so there are a couple of features
of this pattern right so one is there's
some kind of a rejection anger
frustration
so i'm definitely getting all three of
those from this scenario
what i what i'm not hearing is like what
what you envisioned
from your relationship with her
right so you said a little bit of that
that she didn't give you what you
envisioned because you wanted her to go
deep
you wanted her to like and i think
there's a subtle rejection there because
instead of like she would
she was a good listener because you're
saying a lot of positive stuff about her
but you're getting angrier and angrier
so that tells me like there's some kind
of weird defensive positive [ __ ]
like what were you pissed about
spencer and i think that you judge
yourself for being angry
about this so just say it
what were you angry at
i don't know it was just
how did it feel when she was just gently
and then back away
frustrating what was frustrating about
it
it's yeah it's like
so i can deal with like it's easier to
only eats [ __ ] or only eats
sugar but when you give someone [ __ ] and
then [ __ ] and then
a pinch of sugar and then [ __ ] again
like that pinch of sugar is
is annoying like i annoying is the wrong
word but i'd rather like
not get a sweet taste for a little
second
and yeah
yeah so what i'm hearing about is that
she didn't care about you
enough
yeah but that's that's a weird judgment
like i did
i wouldn't expect anyone to take that
away from me
yeah the same thing yeah i had that need
yes spencer so you gotta stop
judging yourself for irrational and
shitty feelings
because you're not even you're like oh
no like there's no way that that's how i
feel so let me just pretend i don't feel
that way
and that's why your ass is bleeding
right because you have to like you have
to like let yourself feel these negative
things you have to acknowledge that
you're not
there are parts of you that are like
not good do i think you're a good person
yeah do i think you can be pretty
manipulative sometimes
yeah do i think the things that drive
you to be manipulative
or like saintly feelings absolutely not
i think there are little mean despicable
parts inside of you that you don't like
to accept
and i think those are the parts that you
have to like you have to let yourself
like you're like a
like there's a lot of bitterness inside
you haven't used that word at all
but boy are you better does ever feel
that way
like you've got this rot that you want
her to like reach your hands and just
take that ball of [ __ ]
just yank it right out of you like
that's what you want you want someone to
come in there and just like
take it out of you right like do like
surgery and there's like this ball of
like bitterness and nastiness
and she's like gentle and listens
and approaches you respectfully and
you're like [ __ ] that
right it's bizarre and then it's really
confusing for you because like i don't
understand this
like we're good friends like we tried
dating that didn't work out it seems
like you guys had a genuine connection
and then you noticed some weird-ass
feelings which is that like the more
gentle she is with you the more angry
you get at her
it's like what is going on there and i
think it comes back to like she's
rejecting you right she's not letting
you
be that whole way
she's not letting you
be completely sad
you know she's not it's just it's just
like your dad man because you're like
saying my dad really wasn't abusive he
just kind of gave me a light smack on
the head
it was gentle just like a little bit
right it's like not stark things and
that's how some scar works because
there's something that
like your mind if someone's like frankly
abusive i think you're like go [ __ ]
yourself and you move on with your life
you're good enough to do that it's these
people who are like gentle with you
these people who are like not willing to
like go
the depth that you want to go and i
think if you really look at that
relationship
spencer this is the really tricky thing
i'd wonder
whether part of what was holding her
back
was actually you
for sure right so then like
now we get into why you're
self-destructive because you hold her
back
and then you blame her for not jumping
forward
and so it all starts with you figuring
out
how do you influence other people in the
relationship
because you paint us into a [ __ ]
corner and then you get upset with us
for not giving you what you wanted
and so i think what you've got to start
doing is like like
stop you know i don't know what you did
but you said for sure so you seem
confident
and i think you know but i mean
desperation is something that people
sense i think
yeah and so were you not showing her
desperation
i was i think okay and what did she do
with it
did you manipulate her
no she rejected it and i felt angry and
i didn't manip
like i think that if i from that anger
point
was manipulative i would be the most
abusive
piece of [ __ ] that existed like i think
that
manipulation and anger is a bad
combination
that didn't indulge in anger
does that make sense yeah so i i think
so i think maybe you've gotta indulge a
little bit
okay so
i mean but i i think we're seeing that
same pattern because you're kind of
saying that like you know you showed her
the desperation and what did she do
rejected it is that how you feel
partly but i wasn't transparent
yeah so that's what i'm confused about
because now i can see why things are
confusing for you because they seem
confusing for me too
because you you say you show her your
desperation but you also say you weren't
transparent so like
which was it um
both yeah so so then like
so that makes sense so then like let's
just think about that right so if you're
not transparent and you show her a flash
of desperation
and you want her to dive in but you
haven't been transparent with her
you're like judging her for like an
unfair ask
because what i'm hearing is that what
i'm hearing from you is what was angry
was that you showed her she did not
she was listening and tried to help you
feel better
but like she gave you just a little bit
like she gave you a little bit of sugar
in your cup of [ __ ] and it wasn't enough
to sweeten it
and at the same time like how much of it
was she aware because you may have just
shown her
like just a tiny little layer of [ __ ]
and she was like okay so here's a little
bit of sugar
and so it's hard because people are
going to judge you and you've been
rejected when you show yourself to
people
hell i did it today right hopefully you
still don't feel that way
and so it's going to be like really hard
it requires courage dude
it requires courage and it requires like
letting other people make their choices
about whether they want to accept you or
not which is really really hard when you
don't feel like
you're you know worth much or other
people have made you feel like you're
not worth much
i don't like the phrasing that i use
there i was trying to find the right
word
it's hard to open yourself up to be
rejected by people when you've been
rejected by
really important people in your life
like your dad
and i think that it makes sense to me
that you know you've got what sounds
like some kind of psychological mutism
for like one year of your life that was
sort of like psychosomatic in nature
so there's something going on with your
your physical body and your mind that
we're kind of wrapped on
you know crohn's disease is not quite as
um psychologically influenced as ibs
um so that has this very strong uh you
know com
component but for you know for
definitely for crohn's disease i'd say
like you should go see a medical doctor
for that in addition to a therapist
so i have a lot of patients who have
crohn's um
and i think it's fine to work on the
psycho neuroimmunology stuff but i think
at the end of the day
you know spencer you have to let
yourself be rejected a little bit more
because when you let yourself do that is
when you'll
give people the opportunity to love you
unconditionally
right and then you get frustrated
because you don't give people like you
don't show people
everything and then they don't respond
the way that you want them to
which is like that's never gonna look
you're that's never gonna work
thoughts questions
yeah so
in my experience and i've been with a
lot of people with
crohn's disease and i'm really biased in
this and i don't know that much but
it seems that most people with crohn's
disease like it started from
a situation where they were in a really
stressful situation
really with suppressive like suppressive
emotions
and that sure ibs
is is also sort of like that but
i figured like i don't know
it's confusing and i think that we've
talked for a while and now i feel foggy
in my head
so okay so maybe enough for today i'm
gonna try to
read into the question that you wanted
to ask and i'll give you an answer so
here's the question that i heard
crohn's disease oftentimes manifests
during periods of high stress
did i get crohn's disease because i was
super stressed
is that your question yeah i mean
part of is of course like genetically
and it's just bad luck but it's also
like the
cases of crohn's disease have been
so much higher than years ago as far as
i know
that i feel like the
mental health epidemic also has a lot to
do like
like this this autoimmune disease
epidemic
as far as i know like i'm not i don't
know a lot about it but
as far as crohn's disease does i know a
little bit about it
but mental health seems to be so much
like
connected with it i don't know how to
say it yeah so here's what i'd say so
like if you think about something like
depression right so there's some genetic
you know influence on depression but
generally speaking
stress exposes our vulnerabilities and
exposes our weaknesses
right so if i take let's say like a
building
and then i subject the building to a
stress every
every building is going to crack in
different places
and so the way that i understand crohn's
disease is it stress related absolutely
it's just in some people the stress
cracks
in terms of your gi system like crohn's
disease
in other people it cracks like
depression
in other people it cracks like blood
pressure
and so the the fact still remains that
if you remove the stress
or you treat the stress then depression
will get better
blood pressure will get better and
crohn's disease will get better
and that's what evidence-based medicine
tells us
so i think that you drew the short straw
in terms of having some kind of like
predisposition to disease
and i'm a big fan of something called
the stress diathesis model of disease
which means that we have a vulnerability
plus a circumstance
is what leads to disease it's not like
you are destined to get the disease
and it's not like it's all stress it's
like environment plus
genetics is what leads to disease
and in your case you know just something
about the way that you are your genetics
make you prone to get crohn's
and i think that if you work on your
mental health and you work on your
stress your crohn's should get better
and that's like a
database statement it's not like a
specific diagnostic thing it's just if
you look at the data
on autoimmune and inflammatory diseases
things like mindfulness and other kinds
of stress reduction interventions
tend to lead to positive outcomes
so i'd say that you know definitely work
on your stress definitely work on this
stuff
um you know try to build healthy
relationships
try to let yourself be a little bit more
vulnerable
and learn how to tolerate a little bit
more rejection
and then you'll begin to see something
which i i think you really have to learn
which is that when people reject you
oftentimes it has nothing to do with you
it has a lot to do with them
right so like whether i reject you or
not doesn't have much to do with what
you do because you're going to do what
you're going to do
it's going to be like how do i choose to
respond so other human beings have
agency
and other human beings do a bad job from
time to time it doesn't mean that you're
a bad person
but sometimes it can feel that way when
we're a child and our dad you know
smacks us for crying
we can feel like we're a bad person
we don't think in that moment that my
dad isn't doing the right thing
right like you can look back on it now
and you can say my dad shouldn't have
done that but
in the moment when you're a child you
think you're the you know you think that
you made a mistake
you don't have the wherewithal to judge
people for their mistakes and so that's
another capacity that you need to learn
which is give people agency and then
judge them for it
anyway enough for today
okay so
final thoughts like one one final
thought yeah please
okay i just wanted to say sorry to moses
that's that's basically it
sorry but like it was it was nice though
and it felt bad yeah
so i i think that's it i'm glad you
apologized to moses because
he works really hard to try to
you know set up something and i'm glad
you apologized to him
okay well listen spencer good luck to
you seriously man
i don't think you're a bad person i
think you know just continue to learn
about yourself
try to be a little bit mindful of that
hunger that need whether you give into
it or you don't give in to it
be aware of it and what it pushes you to
do and the last thing that i'd say to
you is be careful about
its conclusions after you quote unquote
make a mistake
because even though you felt like this
was uncomfortable and that you made a
mistake by coming on or saying this or
whatever
i don't think this was a mistake i think
it's just gonna make you [ __ ]
uncomfortable
and that's actually the kind of growth
that you need is to learn
how to not satisfy that hunger and be
okay with it
okay yeah so absolutely
i think that those instances where i
made quote-unquote mistakes were the
things that
made me learn stuff but yep yeah
sometimes it's sort of
more comfortable or more sort of better
and other instances yeah absolutely
right so sometimes learning
unfortunately is not
easy oftentimes the most important
things we learn in life are the most
painful
which is how our brain is wired because
our hippocampus is right next to our
amygdala
so where we experience negative emotion
is right next to where we learn
and we learn from negative experiences
more powerfully than positive
experiences
okay which is you know anyway a survival
mechanism but thanks for coming on
spencer good luck to you
and um yeah try not to manipulate people
as best as possible
okay sure thank you to you and it's it's
like
i feel like i'm an
yeah i feel like i'm a a proud uncle now
encore is the right word but it's like
i'm watching you grow
or i'm watching you do the stuff that
you're doing or everything
everyone from healthy game and gg sorry
my mind is a bit a little bit foggy
but it's it's it's really enjoyable to
see
you do the stuff that you do so thank
you well i appreciate the positive
sentiment
have a good day man great you too
bye-bye
all right chat debated